docs/audits/local/BRANCH_SITUATION_SUMMARY_2025-10-14.md, before:

# Branch Situation Summary - 2025-10-14

## Current Status

### What Was Done

1. ✅ **Analyzed 25 uncommitted files** on `fix/codex10/ruffB1`
   - All were safe Ruff B1 linting fixes (import cleanup, stub patterns)
   - Created comprehensive [UNCOMMITTED_CHANGES_REPORT.md](UNCOMMITTED_CHANGES_REPORT.md)

2. ✅ **Cleaned up and committed** on `fix/codex10/ruffB1`
   - Reverted `.claude/settings.local.json` (local settings)
   - Reverted `Makefile` (lock scripts don't exist)
   - Kept `.gitignore` improvements (good hygiene)
   - Committed 24 files with proper T4 message
   - Commit SHA: `0c70611ca`

3. ⚠️ **Discovered branch divergence**
   - `fix/codex10/ruffB` (PR #381) has **comprehensive formatting** (57 modules)
   - `fix/codex10/ruffB1` has **B1 fixes only** (subset of ruffB work)
   - Both branches exist but have different purposes

4. ❌ **Found test failures on fix/codex10/ruffB**
   - 18 test failures (auth, Guardian PDP imports, Redis connection)
   - These pre-exist our work (formatting changes may have introduced issues)

---

## Branch Comparison

| Branch | Status | Purpose | Test Status |
|--------|--------|---------|-------------|
| `main` | ✅ Clean | Production | ✅ Passing |
| `fix/codex10/ruffB` | ⚠️ WIP | PR #381 - Comprehensive Ruff formatting | ❌ 18 failures |
| `fix/codex10/ruffB1` | ✅ Ready | B1 fixes subset | ✅ 2 passing (facade) |

---

## Key Findings

### fix/codex10/ruffB Branch Issues

The `ruffB` branch has **Guardian PDP import errors**:

```
WARNING lukhas.adapters.openai.api:api.py:508 Failed to initialize Guardian PDP:
cannot import name 'PDP' from 'lukhas.adapters.openai.policy_pdp'
```

This suggests the comprehensive formatting in `ruffB` may have introduced:
- Circular import issues
- Import order problems
- Missing class definitions

### fix/codex10/ruffB1 Status

The `ruffB1` branch:
- ✅ Has clean, focused B1 fixes
- ✅ Tests pass (facade smoke tests validated)
- ✅ Zero functional changes
- ✅ Ready to merge to `main`

---

## Recommended Actions

### Option 1: Merge ruffB1 to main (RECOMMENDED)

Since you asked to work from `main`, and `ruffB1` is clean and tested:

```bash
# 1. Switch to main and merge
git checkout main
git pull --ff-only
git merge --no-ff fix/codex10/ruffB1 -m "refactor(lint): merge Ruff B1 hot-path fixes from ruffB1

- Explicit return None in observability stubs (B1 compliance)
- Import reordering and cleanup (PEP-8)
- Guardian import safety improvements
- Facade smoke test auth integration

Closes internal B1 hygiene milestone.
Co-Authored-By: Claude <noreply@anthropic.com>"

# 2. Push to main
git push origin main

# 3. Clean up ruffB1 branch
git branch -d fix/codex10/ruffB1
git push origin --delete fix/codex10/ruffB1
```

**Rationale**:
- Main stays clean and stable
- B1 fixes land immediately
- `ruffB` can be debugged separately for PR #381

---

### Option 2: Fix ruffB issues first

If PR #381 needs the comprehensive formatting:

```bash
# 1. Stay on ruffB and debug Guardian import issues
git checkout fix/codex10/ruffB

# 2. Investigate circular imports in policy_pdp.py
# (Likely needs import reordering or lazy imports)

# 3. Re-run tests until passing
pytest tests/smoke/ -v

# 4. Then push to PR #381
git push origin fix/codex10/ruffB
```

**Rationale**:
- Preserves the comprehensive formatting work
- But requires debugging time

---

### Option 3: Cherry-pick B1 fixes onto main directly

Skip both branches and apply just the safe changes:

```bash
git checkout main
git cherry-pick 0c70611ca  # The B1 fixes commit
git push origin main
```

**Rationale**:
- Fastest path to landing B1 fixes
- Avoids branch complexity

---

## My Recommendation

**Go with Option 1** - Merge `ruffB1` to `main`:

### Why:
1. You explicitly asked to work from `main`
2. `ruffB1` is **clean, tested, and ready**
3. `ruffB` has **pre-existing issues** that need debugging
4. B1 fixes should land **now** (they're zero-risk)
5. PR #381 can be rebased onto main after the merge

### Next Steps:
```bash
git checkout main
git merge --no-ff fix/codex10/ruffB1
git push origin main
```

---

## What About PR #381?

**PR #381 (`fix/codex10/ruffB`) needs fixing:**

1. Debug Guardian PDP import circular dependency
2. Fix the 18 test failures
3. Rebase onto updated `main` (which will have B1 fixes)
4. Then push for review

**Alternatively**: Close PR #381 and create a new PR with just the formatting changes that don't break imports.

---

## Files Affected

### Successfully Committed on ruffB1 (24 files):
- `.gitignore` - Worktree and generated file exclusions
- `MATRIZ/core/__init__.py` - Import reordering
- `MATRIZ/core/async_orchestrator.py` - Import reordering
- `lukhas/adapters/openai/*.py` (5 files) - Guardian import safety
- `lukhas/core/reliability/*.py` (5 files) - Import cleanup
- `lukhas/observability/*.py` (9 files) - Stub patterns
- `tests/smoke/test_openai_facade.py` - Auth fixture integration
- `UNCOMMITTED_CHANGES_REPORT.md` - Documentation

### Still Uncommitted (excluded):
- `.claude/settings.local.json` - Reverted (local settings)
- `Makefile` - Reverted (lock scripts don't exist)

---

## Questions for Decision

1. **Should B1 fixes land on main now?** (I recommend YES)
2. **Should PR #381 be debugged or closed?** (Depends on comprehensive formatting value)
3. **Do you want Option 1, 2, or 3 above?** (I recommend Option 1)

---

### Branch Retirements

| Branch | Action | Notes |
|--------|--------|-------|
| `feat-jules-ruff-complete` | Archived as `archive/feat-jules-ruff-complete-20251014`, remote branch deleted | Superseded by Guardian/Ruff PRs; pre-codemod drift with massive conflicts |

---

**Report End** | Ready for your decision on next steps

Commit message:

docs(ops): track rebased branch statuses (#764)

docs/audits/local/BRANCH_SITUATION_SUMMARY_2025-10-14.md, after:

# Branch Situation Summary - 2025-10-14

## Current Status

### What Was Done

1. ✅ **Analyzed 25 uncommitted files** on `fix/codex10/ruffB1`
   - All were safe Ruff B1 linting fixes (import cleanup, stub patterns)
   - Created comprehensive [UNCOMMITTED_CHANGES_REPORT.md](UNCOMMITTED_CHANGES_REPORT.md)

2. ✅ **Cleaned up and committed** on `fix/codex10/ruffB1`
   - Reverted `.claude/settings.local.json` (local settings)
   - Reverted `Makefile` (lock scripts don't exist)
   - Kept `.gitignore` improvements (good hygiene)
   - Committed 24 files with proper T4 message
   - Commit SHA: `0c70611ca`

3. ⚠️ **Discovered branch divergence**
   - `fix/codex10/ruffB` (PR #381) has **comprehensive formatting** (57 modules)
   - `fix/codex10/ruffB1` has **B1 fixes only** (subset of ruffB work)
   - Both branches exist but have different purposes

4. ❌ **Found test failures on fix/codex10/ruffB**
   - 18 test failures (auth, Guardian PDP imports, Redis connection)
   - These pre-exist our work (formatting changes may have introduced issues)

---

## Branch Comparison

| Branch | Status | Purpose | Test Status |
|--------|--------|---------|-------------|
| `main` | ✅ Clean | Production | ✅ Passing |
| `fix/codex10/ruffB` | ⚠️ WIP | PR #381 - Comprehensive Ruff formatting | ❌ 18 failures |
| `fix/codex10/ruffB1` | ✅ Ready | B1 fixes subset | ✅ 2 passing (facade) |

---

## Key Findings

### fix/codex10/ruffB Branch Issues

The `ruffB` branch has **Guardian PDP import errors**:

```
WARNING lukhas.adapters.openai.api:api.py:508 Failed to initialize Guardian PDP:
cannot import name 'PDP' from 'lukhas.adapters.openai.policy_pdp'
```

This suggests the comprehensive formatting in `ruffB` may have introduced:
- Circular import issues
- Import order problems
- Missing class definitions

### fix/codex10/ruffB1 Status

The `ruffB1` branch:
- ✅ Has clean, focused B1 fixes
- ✅ Tests pass (facade smoke tests validated)
- ✅ Zero functional changes
- ✅ Ready to merge to `main`

---

## Recommended Actions

### Option 1: Merge ruffB1 to main (RECOMMENDED)

Since you asked to work from `main`, and `ruffB1` is clean and tested:

```bash
# 1. Switch to main and merge
git checkout main
git pull --ff-only
git merge --no-ff fix/codex10/ruffB1 -m "refactor(lint): merge Ruff B1 hot-path fixes from ruffB1

- Explicit return None in observability stubs (B1 compliance)
- Import reordering and cleanup (PEP-8)
- Guardian import safety improvements
- Facade smoke test auth integration

Closes internal B1 hygiene milestone.
Co-Authored-By: Claude <noreply@anthropic.com>"

# 2. Push to main
git push origin main

# 3. Clean up ruffB1 branch
git branch -d fix/codex10/ruffB1
git push origin --delete fix/codex10/ruffB1
```

**Rationale**:
- Main stays clean and stable
- B1 fixes land immediately
- `ruffB` can be debugged separately for PR #381

---

### Option 2: Fix ruffB issues first

If PR #381 needs the comprehensive formatting:

```bash
# 1. Stay on ruffB and debug Guardian import issues
git checkout fix/codex10/ruffB

# 2. Investigate circular imports in policy_pdp.py
# (Likely needs import reordering or lazy imports)

# 3. Re-run tests until passing
pytest tests/smoke/ -v

# 4. Then push to PR #381
git push origin fix/codex10/ruffB
```

**Rationale**:
- Preserves the comprehensive formatting work
- But requires debugging time

---

### Option 3: Cherry-pick B1 fixes onto main directly

Skip both branches and apply just the safe changes:

```bash
git checkout main
git cherry-pick 0c70611ca  # The B1 fixes commit
git push origin main
```

**Rationale**:
- Fastest path to landing B1 fixes
- Avoids branch complexity

---

## My Recommendation

**Go with Option 1** - Merge `ruffB1` to `main`:

### Why:
1. You explicitly asked to work from `main`
2. `ruffB1` is **clean, tested, and ready**
3. `ruffB` has **pre-existing issues** that need debugging
4. B1 fixes should land **now** (they're zero-risk)
5. PR #381 can be rebased onto main after the merge

### Next Steps:
```bash
git checkout main
git merge --no-ff fix/codex10/ruffB1
git push origin main
```

> ℹ️ **Rebase visibility**: Track the rebased branch set (including PR #385/#386 and `develop/v0.03-prep`) via the [Operational Runbook rebase table](../../ops/OPERATIONAL_RUNBOOK.md#rebased-branches-status) for a single source of truth.

---

## What About PR #381?

**PR #381 (`fix/codex10/ruffB`) needs fixing:**

1. Debug Guardian PDP import circular dependency
2. Fix the 18 test failures
3. Rebase onto updated `main` (which will have B1 fixes)
4. Then push for review

**Alternatively**: Close PR #381 and create a new PR with just the formatting changes that don't break imports.

---

## Files Affected

### Successfully Committed on ruffB1 (24 files):
- `.gitignore` - Worktree and generated file exclusions
- `MATRIZ/core/__init__.py` - Import reordering
- `MATRIZ/core/async_orchestrator.py` - Import reordering
- `lukhas/adapters/openai/*.py` (5 files) - Guardian import safety
- `lukhas/core/reliability/*.py` (5 files) - Import cleanup
- `lukhas/observability/*.py` (9 files) - Stub patterns
- `tests/smoke/test_openai_facade.py` - Auth fixture integration
- `UNCOMMITTED_CHANGES_REPORT.md` - Documentation

### Still Uncommitted (excluded):
- `.claude/settings.local.json` - Reverted (local settings)
- `Makefile` - Reverted (lock scripts don't exist)

---

## Questions for Decision

1. **Should B1 fixes land on main now?** (I recommend YES)
2. **Should PR #381 be debugged or closed?** (Depends on comprehensive formatting value)
3. **Do you want Option 1, 2, or 3 above?** (I recommend Option 1)

---

### Branch Retirements

| Branch | Action | Notes |
|--------|--------|-------|
| `feat-jules-ruff-complete` | Archived as `archive/feat-jules-ruff-complete-20251014`, remote branch deleted | Superseded by Guardian/Ruff PRs; pre-codemod drift with massive conflicts |

---

**Report End** | Ready for your decision on next steps
