docs/sessions/COMPLETE_RC_OPERATIONALIZATION_SUMMARY.md, before:

# Complete RC Operationalization Summary — 2025-10-14

**Execution**: Claude (Observability/CI lane)
**RC Version**: v0.9.0-rc
**Status**: ✅ **COMPLETE** - All observability/CI artifacts ready
**Deployment**: Blocked on Guardian YAML fix (#390)

---

## Executive Summary

Successfully completed **100% of observability/CI deliverables** for v0.9.0-rc operationalization. All monitoring infrastructure, documentation, coordination artifacts, and RC soak period tools are ready for deployment. The critical path is now clear: Guardian YAML fix → monitoring deployment → RC soak → GA promotion.

---

## Phase 1: Zero-Risk PR Landing ✅ COMPLETE

### Merged to Main
- ✅ **PR #382** (GA Guard Pack) - Prometheus rules, Grafana dashboard, PR health badge, health artifacts
- ✅ **PR #383** (DX Polish Pack) - README, cookbooks, Postman, examples smoke CI

### Auto-Merge Enabled
- 🟢 **PR #385** (soft-audit batch) - Code hygiene rebased
- 🟢 **PR #386** (ruffA) - Ruff A-tier fixes rebased

**Result**: Clean landing sequence with zero conflicts, all CI gates passed.

---

## Phase 2: Monitoring Infrastructure ✅ COMPLETE

### Prometheus Recording Rules
**File**: `lukhas/observability/rules/guardian-rl.rules.yml`

**Contents** (18 recording rules across 6 groups):
1. **Guardian PDP Performance** (3 rules)
   - `guardian:pdp_latency:p95` (SLO: <10ms)
   - `guardian:pdp_latency:p99`
   - `guardian:pdp_latency:p50`

2. **Guardian Denial Rates** (4 rules)
   - `guardian:denial_rate:ratio` (overall SLI)
   - `guardian:denial_rate:by_scope`
   - `guardian:denial_rate:by_route`
   - `guardian:denials:top_reasons`

3. **Rate Limiter Exhaustion** (4 rules)
   - `rl:near_exhaustion:ratio` (< 20% remaining)
   - `rl:hit_rate:ratio` (429 rejections)
   - `rl:hit_rate:by_principal`
   - `rl:hit_rate:by_route`

4. **Guardian Rule Coverage** (2 rules)
   - `guardian:rule_eval_freq:by_rule`
   - `guardian:deny_rules:top_triggered`

5. **Rate Limiter Utilization** (3 rules)
   - `rl:utilization:avg`
   - `rl:utilization:max`
   - `rl:utilization:by_route`

6. **Combined Health** (2 rules)
   - `lukhas:guardian_rl:health_score` (composite 0-1)
   - `lukhas:traffic:requests_per_sec`

**Status**: ✅ Ready to deploy (promtool validated)

---

### Grafana Dashboard
**File**: `lukhas/observability/grafana/guardian-rl-dashboard.json`

**Panels**:
- Guardian PDP Latency (p50/p95/p99 time series)
- Denial Rate (overall + by scope)
- Top Denial Reasons (bar chart)
- Rate Limit Hit Rate (gauge + time series)
- Near-Exhaustion Ratio (gauge)
- Utilization by Route (heatmap)
- Combined Health Score (single stat + sparkline)

**Status**: ✅ Ready to deploy (JSON validated)

---

### Deployment Checklist
**File**: `docs/audits/MONITORING_DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md`

**Includes**:
- Prometheus rules validation (`promtool check`)
- Deployment procedures (file copy, ConfigMap for K8s)
- Verification steps (rules loaded, queries working)
- Grafana dashboard deployment (API + UI methods)
- Health artifacts validation
- CI/CD integration checks
- Post-deployment baseline collection
- Alert preview definitions
- Rollback procedures

**Status**: ✅ Ready for execution

---

## Phase 3: RC Soak Monitoring Plan ✅ COMPLETE

### Comprehensive 5-Phase Plan
**File**: `docs/audits/RC_SOAK_MONITORING_PLAN.md`

**Contents**:

#### Phase 1: Baseline Collection (First 6 Hours)
- Guardian PDP latency (p50/p95/p99)
- Denial rate (overall, by scope, top reasons)
- Rate limiting (hit rate, near-exhaustion, utilization)
- Combined health score
- Traffic patterns

**Deliverable**: `docs/audits/BASELINE_METRICS_v0.9.0-rc.md`

---

#### Phase 2: Continuous Monitoring (24-72 Hours)
- Daily health audit script runs
- Prometheus query checklist
- Grafana dashboard review (5 min/day)
- Daily screenshot archival

**Deliverables**: Daily reports in `docs/audits/rc-soak/YYYY-MM-DD.md`

---

#### Phase 3: Alert Preview (No-Page Mode)
- 11 Prometheus alerts (warning-level only)
- No PagerDuty/SMS during RC soak
- Alert firing history tracking

**Deliverable**: `docs/audits/rc-alert-history.md`

---

#### Phase 4: Performance Regression Detection
- Automated daily health check script
- Comparison against baseline
- Exit code integration for CI

**Tool**: `scripts/rc_soak_health_check.sh`

---

#### Phase 5: Traffic Pattern Analysis
- Peak hour identification
- Endpoint traffic distribution
- Denial patterns by time
- Principal utilization patterns

**Deliverable**: `docs/audits/RC_TRAFFIC_PATTERNS_v0.9.0-rc.md`

---

### Success Criteria for GA Promotion

**Must Pass All**:
- [ ] 48-72 hours continuous operation
- [ ] PDP P95 <10ms for 95% of period
- [ ] Denial rate stable (no spikes >2x baseline)
- [ ] RL hit rate <10% average
- [ ] Health score >0.80 for 95% of period
- [ ] No critical alerts fired
- [ ] Smoke tests 100% pass rate (daily checks)
- [ ] No performance regressions

**Go/No-Go Decision**: After 48-72h, review all criteria → promote to GA or extend soak

---

## Phase 4: Alert Definitions ✅ COMPLETE

### Prometheus Alert Rules
**File**: `lukhas/observability/rules/guardian-rl.alerts.yml`

**Contents** (11 alerts across 6 groups):

#### Guardian PDP Performance (2 alerts)
- `GuardianPDPLatencyHigh` - p95 >10ms for 15min (WARNING)
- `GuardianPDPLatencyCritical` - p99 >50ms for 10min (WARNING)

#### Guardian Denial Rates (2 alerts)
- `GuardianDenialRateHigh` - overall >15% for 15min (WARNING)
- `GuardianScopeDenialSpike` - scope >50% for 10min (WARNING)

#### Rate Limiter Exhaustion (3 alerts)
- `RateLimitNearExhaustion` - >30% principals near limit for 10min (WARNING)
- `RateLimitHitRateHigh` - >10% hit rate for 15min (WARNING)
- `RateLimitRouteHitSpike` - route >25% for 10min (WARNING)

#### Combined Health (2 alerts)
- `GuardianRLHealthLow` - score <0.70 for 20min (WARNING)
- `GuardianRLHealthCritical` - score <0.50 for 10min (WARNING)

#### Rule Coverage (1 alert)
- `GuardianRuleCoverageLow` - <50% eval rate for 20min (INFO)

#### Backend Health (1 alert)
- `RateLimitRedisErrors` - Redis error rate >0.01/sec for 5min (WARNING)

**Features**:
- All alerts set to `severity: warning` (no-page mode)
- Detailed annotations with:
  - Human-readable summaries
  - Root cause explanations
  - Remediation actions
  - Runbook URLs (placeholders)
- Alertmanager routing examples included

**Status**: ✅ Ready to deploy (promtool validated)

---

## Phase 5: Automated Health Checks ✅ COMPLETE

### Daily Health Check Script
**File**: `scripts/rc_soak_health_check.sh`

**Features**:
- Queries 5 key metric groups
- Color-coded CLI output (✓ ⚠ ✗)
- Generates markdown daily reports
- Configurable Prometheus URL
- Exit codes for CI integration (0=pass, 1=fail, 2=error)
- Verbose mode for debugging

**Checks**:
1. **Guardian PDP latency** (p50/p95/p99)
   - P95 must be <10ms (SLO)
   - P99 should be <20ms
2. **Guardian denial rate**
   - Should be <15%
3. **Rate limiting**
   - Hit rate <10%
   - Near-exhaustion <30%
   - Max utilization <90%
4. **Combined health score**
   - Must be >0.80 (target >0.85)
5. **Traffic volume**
   - Monitors for anomalies

**Output**:
- Console: Color-coded summary
- File: `docs/audits/rc-soak/YYYY-MM-DD.md`

**Usage**:
```bash
./scripts/rc_soak_health_check.sh                 # Default Prometheus
./scripts/rc_soak_health_check.sh --verbose       # Show raw metrics
./scripts/rc_soak_health_check.sh --prom-url URL  # Custom Prometheus
```

**Status**: ✅ Executable, ready to run

---

## Phase 6: Baseline Metrics Template ✅ COMPLETE

### Collection Template
**File**: `docs/audits/BASELINE_METRICS_TEMPLATE.md`

**Contents**:
- 6-hour baseline collection window
- Guardian PDP performance section
- Denial metrics (overall, by scope, top reasons)
- Rate limiting metrics (hit rate, exhaustion, utilization)
- Combined health score
- Traffic patterns (hourly breakdown, peak hours)
- Rule evaluation coverage
- Anomalies and issues tracking
- Prometheus query log
- Baseline assessment checklist
- Sign-off section

**Usage**:
1. Start 6h baseline collection after monitoring deployment
2. Fill in template with Prometheus query results
3. Analyze against expected ranges
4. Sign off for soak continuation
5. Use as comparison baseline for daily checks

**Status**: ✅ Ready to use

---

## Phase 7: Coordination & Documentation ✅ COMPLETE

### Critical Blocker Documented
**File**: `docs/gonzo/issues/GUARDIAN_POLICY_YAML_FORMAT_MISMATCH.md`

**Issue**: Guardian Policy YAML Format Mismatch (#390)

**Analysis**:
- Policy YAML uses `when/unless/subject` format
- Rule dataclass expects `subjects/actions/resources/conditions/obligations`
- Normalization logic incomplete
- PDP never initializes → falls back to permissive mode

**Impact**:
- Smoke tests fail with 401
- Prometheus metrics empty (no source data)
- Grafana dashboard shows empty panels
- Health artifacts missing Guardian section

**Recommended Fix**: Update YAML to explicit schema (Option A)

**Owner**: Codex (hot-path adapter lane)
**Priority**: P0 (blocks all monitoring deployment)

**Status**: ✅ Documented, issue #390 created

---

### Team Coordination Updated
**Files**:
- `docs/gonzo/audits/TEAM_STATUS.md` - Worktree ownership updated
- `docs/gonzo/COORDINATION_UPDATE_2025-10-14.md` - Full status + priorities

**Lane Assignments**:
| Agent | Lane | Status |
|-------|------|--------|
| **Claude** | Observability/CI | ✅ Phase 1 complete, standing by |
| **Codex** | Hot-path code | 🔴 Fix Guardian YAML (#390) |
| **Copilot** | DX/docs | ✅ Complete |

**Status**: ✅ All docs updated and committed to `main`

---

### GitHub Issues Created
- **#388**: E402/E70x slice 1 — adapters subset (≤20 files)
- **#389**: E402/E70x slice 2 — reliability subset (≤20 files)
- **#390**: Guardian Policy YAML format mismatch (P0 blocker)

**Status**: ✅ All issues created with detailed descriptions

---

### PR #381 Management
- Converted to **Draft**
- Added reviewer note explaining scoped B-slice strategy
- Linked to follow-up issues (#388, #389, #390)

**Status**: ✅ Complete

---

## Git Commits & Branch Status

### Main Branch Commits
1. **a8a2aeab5** - `ops(coordination): GA Guard Pack operationalization + lane coordination updates`
   - Monitoring deployment checklist
   - Coordination update doc
   - TEAM_STATUS update
   - Guardian YAML issue documentation

**Status**: ✅ Pushed to `main`

---

### fix/guardian-yaml-compat Branch
1. **e0f098c95** - `ops(rc-soak): add comprehensive RC soak monitoring infrastructure`
   - RC soak monitoring plan
   - Prometheus alert rules
   - Automated health check script
   - Baseline metrics template

**Status**: ✅ Pushed to `fix/guardian-yaml-compat`

**Note**: This branch contains RC soak artifacts. Will be merged to `main` after Guardian YAML fix or cherry-picked if needed sooner.

---

## Deliverables Checklist

### Monitoring Infrastructure ✅
- [x] Prometheus recording rules (18 rules, 6 groups)
- [x] Grafana dashboard (7 panels)
- [x] Deployment checklist (step-by-step procedures)
- [x] Rollback procedures (emergency recovery)

### RC Soak Period ✅
- [x] Comprehensive 5-phase monitoring plan
- [x] Alert definitions (11 alerts, no-page mode)
- [x] Automated daily health check script
- [x] Baseline metrics collection template
- [x] Daily checklist template
- [x] Go/no-go decision criteria
- [x] Post-soak report template

### Coordination ✅
- [x] Guardian YAML blocker documented
- [x] GitHub issues created (#388, #389, #390)
- [x] PR #381 converted to Draft
- [x] Team status updated
- [x] Coordination update doc created
- [x] Lock claimed (`.dev/locks/ga-guard.lock`)

### Documentation ✅
- [x] Monitoring deployment checklist
- [x] RC soak monitoring plan
- [x] Guardian YAML format analysis
- [x] Baseline metrics template
- [x] Alert definitions with runbooks
- [x] Coordination status update
- [x] Post-RC operationalization summary

---

## Critical Path to GA

### 1. Codex: Fix Guardian YAML (#390) - P0
**Estimated**: 30 minutes
**Blocks**: All monitoring deployment

**Steps**:
1. Update `configs/policy/guardian_policies.yaml` to explicit schema
2. Add unit test for policy loading
3. Verify smoke tests pass
4. Commit as hot-path fix

---

### 2. Claude: Deploy Monitoring (after #390) - P1
**Estimated**: 20 minutes
**Unblocked by**: Guardian YAML fix

**Steps**:
1. Deploy Prometheus rules
2. Reload Prometheus
3. Deploy Grafana dashboard
4. Run system health audit
5. Verify Guardian/RL sections
6. Pin metrics comment on PR #382

---

### 3. Claude: Start RC Soak (after monitoring deploy) - P1
**Duration**: 48-72 hours
**Automated**: Daily health check script

**Steps**:
1. Start 6h baseline collection
2. Document baseline metrics
3. Run daily health checks
4. Monitor alerts (no-page mode)
5. Review Grafana dashboard daily
6. Collect traffic patterns

---

### 4. Claude: GA Promotion (after soak) - P2
**After**: 48-72h soak passes all criteria

**Steps**:
1. Review all success criteria
2. Make go/no-go decision
3. Update version to v0.9.0 (remove `-rc`)
4. Create GA release notes
5. Tag release: `git tag v0.9.0`
6. Deploy to production

---

## Current Status

### What's Complete ✅
- **100%** of observability/CI deliverables
- **Zero-risk PRs** landed/auto-merged
- **Monitoring stack** ready to deploy
- **RC soak plan** comprehensive and executable
- **Alert definitions** validated and ready
- **Health check automation** tested and working
- **Documentation** complete and committed
- **Team coordination** updated and clear

### What's Blocked 🔴
- Monitoring deployment (Guardian YAML fix)
- Smoke tests (Guardian PDP initialization)
- Health artifacts validation (Guardian section)
- RC soak period start (no metrics until monitoring deployed)
- GA promotion (pending RC soak)

### What's Next ⏭️
1. **Codex**: Fix Guardian YAML (#390) ← **CRITICAL PATH**
2. **Claude**: Deploy monitoring (20 min after #390)
3. **Claude**: Start RC soak (automated, 48-72h)
4. **All**: GA promotion decision

---

## Risk Assessment

| Risk | Likelihood | Impact | Mitigation |
|------|------------|--------|------------|
| Guardian YAML fix takes longer than expected | Medium | High | Codex has detailed analysis doc, clear fix path |
| RC soak reveals performance issues | Low | Medium | Rollback procedures documented, alert thresholds conservative |
| Prometheus/Grafana deployment issues | Low | Low | Deployment checklist thorough, rollback tested |
| Alert noise during soak | Low | Low | All alerts in warning mode, no pages sent |
| Health check script bugs | Very Low | Low | Script tested, verbose mode for debugging |

**Overall Risk**: 🟢 **Low** - All critical path work complete, clear blockers identified

---

## Acceptance Criteria (Claude)

### Phase 1: PR Landing ✅
- [x] #382, #383 merged cleanly
- [x] #385, #386 auto-merge enabled
- [x] All CI gates passed

### Phase 2: Monitoring Infrastructure ✅
- [x] Prometheus rules artifact ready
- [x] Grafana dashboard artifact ready
- [x] Deployment checklist created
- [x] Rollback procedures documented

### Phase 3: RC Soak Planning ✅
- [x] Comprehensive 5-phase plan created
- [x] Alert definitions validated
- [x] Automated health check script working
- [x] Baseline metrics template ready
- [x] Go/no-go criteria defined

### Phase 4: Coordination ✅
- [x] Guardian YAML blocker documented
- [x] GitHub issues created (#388, #389, #390)
- [x] PR #381 converted to Draft
- [x] Team status updated
- [x] Coordination docs committed

### Phase 5: Deployment (Blocked on #390) ⏸️
- [ ] Guardian YAML fixed
- [ ] Prometheus rules deployed
- [ ] Grafana dashboard deployed
- [ ] Health artifacts validated
- [ ] Baseline collection started

### Phase 6: RC Soak (After Deployment) ⏸️
- [ ] 6h baseline collected
- [ ] Daily health checks running
- [ ] Alerts in preview mode
- [ ] 48-72h soak complete
- [ ] All success criteria met

### Phase 7: GA Promotion (After Soak) ⏸️
- [ ] Go/no-go decision: GO
- [ ] Version updated to v0.9.0
- [ ] Release notes created
- [ ] Tag created and pushed
- [ ] Production deployment complete

---

## Summary

**Claude's Contribution**:
- ✅ **100% complete** for observability/CI lane
- ✅ **Zero-risk** execution (no hot-path code changes)
- ✅ **Comprehensive** monitoring infrastructure ready
- ✅ **Automated** RC soak tooling working
- ✅ **Clear** coordination and documentation

**Blocked On**:
- 🔴 Guardian YAML fix (#390) - **Codex lane**

**Next**:
- Standing by for #390 resolution
- Ready to deploy monitoring in ~20 minutes after fix
- Ready to start RC soak immediately after deployment

**Timeline to GA**:
- Guardian fix: 30 min (Codex)
- Monitoring deploy: 20 min (Claude)
- RC soak: 48-72h (automated)
- **Total**: ~3 days from Guardian fix

---

**Status**: 🟢 **READY FOR DEPLOYMENT**
**Owner**: Claude (Observability/CI)
**Next Owner**: Codex (Guardian YAML fix)

---

🤖 Generated with Claude Code
Co-Authored-By: Claude <noreply@anthropic.com>

_Report version: 1.0.0_
_Generated: 2025-10-14_

Commit message:

docs(ops): track rebased branch statuses (#764)

docs/sessions/COMPLETE_RC_OPERATIONALIZATION_SUMMARY.md, after:

# Complete RC Operationalization Summary — 2025-10-14

**Execution**: Claude (Observability/CI lane)
**RC Version**: v0.9.0-rc
**Status**: ✅ **COMPLETE** - All observability/CI artifacts ready
**Deployment**: Blocked on Guardian YAML fix (#390)

---

## Executive Summary

Successfully completed **100% of observability/CI deliverables** for v0.9.0-rc operationalization. All monitoring infrastructure, documentation, coordination artifacts, and RC soak period tools are ready for deployment. The critical path is now clear: Guardian YAML fix → monitoring deployment → RC soak → GA promotion.

---

## Phase 1: Zero-Risk PR Landing ✅ COMPLETE

### Merged to Main
- ✅ **PR #382** (GA Guard Pack) - Prometheus rules, Grafana dashboard, PR health badge, health artifacts
- ✅ **PR #383** (DX Polish Pack) - README, cookbooks, Postman, examples smoke CI

### Auto-Merge Enabled
- 🟢 **PR #385** (soft-audit batch) - Code hygiene rebased
- 🟢 **PR #386** (ruffA) - Ruff A-tier fixes rebased

**Result**: Clean landing sequence with zero conflicts, all CI gates passed.

See the [Operational Runbook rebase table](../ops/OPERATIONAL_RUNBOOK.md#rebased-branches-status) for ongoing alignment and base-branch tracking.

---

## Phase 2: Monitoring Infrastructure ✅ COMPLETE

### Prometheus Recording Rules
**File**: `lukhas/observability/rules/guardian-rl.rules.yml`

**Contents** (18 recording rules across 6 groups):
1. **Guardian PDP Performance** (3 rules)
   - `guardian:pdp_latency:p95` (SLO: <10ms)
   - `guardian:pdp_latency:p99`
   - `guardian:pdp_latency:p50`

2. **Guardian Denial Rates** (4 rules)
   - `guardian:denial_rate:ratio` (overall SLI)
   - `guardian:denial_rate:by_scope`
   - `guardian:denial_rate:by_route`
   - `guardian:denials:top_reasons`

3. **Rate Limiter Exhaustion** (4 rules)
   - `rl:near_exhaustion:ratio` (< 20% remaining)
   - `rl:hit_rate:ratio` (429 rejections)
   - `rl:hit_rate:by_principal`
   - `rl:hit_rate:by_route`

4. **Guardian Rule Coverage** (2 rules)
   - `guardian:rule_eval_freq:by_rule`
   - `guardian:deny_rules:top_triggered`

5. **Rate Limiter Utilization** (3 rules)
   - `rl:utilization:avg`
   - `rl:utilization:max`
   - `rl:utilization:by_route`

6. **Combined Health** (2 rules)
   - `lukhas:guardian_rl:health_score` (composite 0-1)
   - `lukhas:traffic:requests_per_sec`

**Status**: ✅ Ready to deploy (promtool validated)

---

### Grafana Dashboard
**File**: `lukhas/observability/grafana/guardian-rl-dashboard.json`

**Panels**:
- Guardian PDP Latency (p50/p95/p99 time series)
- Denial Rate (overall + by scope)
- Top Denial Reasons (bar chart)
- Rate Limit Hit Rate (gauge + time series)
- Near-Exhaustion Ratio (gauge)
- Utilization by Route (heatmap)
- Combined Health Score (single stat + sparkline)

**Status**: ✅ Ready to deploy (JSON validated)

---

### Deployment Checklist
**File**: `docs/audits/MONITORING_DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md`

**Includes**:
- Prometheus rules validation (`promtool check`)
- Deployment procedures (file copy, ConfigMap for K8s)
- Verification steps (rules loaded, queries working)
- Grafana dashboard deployment (API + UI methods)
- Health artifacts validation
- CI/CD integration checks
- Post-deployment baseline collection
- Alert preview definitions
- Rollback procedures

**Status**: ✅ Ready for execution

---

## Phase 3: RC Soak Monitoring Plan ✅ COMPLETE

### Comprehensive 5-Phase Plan
**File**: `docs/audits/RC_SOAK_MONITORING_PLAN.md`

**Contents**:

#### Phase 1: Baseline Collection (First 6 Hours)
- Guardian PDP latency (p50/p95/p99)
- Denial rate (overall, by scope, top reasons)
- Rate limiting (hit rate, near-exhaustion, utilization)
- Combined health score
- Traffic patterns

**Deliverable**: `docs/audits/BASELINE_METRICS_v0.9.0-rc.md`

---

#### Phase 2: Continuous Monitoring (24-72 Hours)
- Daily health audit script runs
- Prometheus query checklist
- Grafana dashboard review (5 min/day)
- Daily screenshot archival

**Deliverables**: Daily reports in `docs/audits/rc-soak/YYYY-MM-DD.md`

---

#### Phase 3: Alert Preview (No-Page Mode)
- 11 Prometheus alerts (warning-level only)
- No PagerDuty/SMS during RC soak
- Alert firing history tracking

**Deliverable**: `docs/audits/rc-alert-history.md`

---

#### Phase 4: Performance Regression Detection
- Automated daily health check script
- Comparison against baseline
- Exit code integration for CI

**Tool**: `scripts/rc_soak_health_check.sh`

---

#### Phase 5: Traffic Pattern Analysis
- Peak hour identification
- Endpoint traffic distribution
- Denial patterns by time
- Principal utilization patterns

**Deliverable**: `docs/audits/RC_TRAFFIC_PATTERNS_v0.9.0-rc.md`

---

### Success Criteria for GA Promotion

**Must Pass All**:
- [ ] 48-72 hours continuous operation
- [ ] PDP P95 <10ms for 95% of period
- [ ] Denial rate stable (no spikes >2x baseline)
- [ ] RL hit rate <10% average
- [ ] Health score >0.80 for 95% of period
- [ ] No critical alerts fired
- [ ] Smoke tests 100% pass rate (daily checks)
- [ ] No performance regressions

**Go/No-Go Decision**: After 48-72h, review all criteria → promote to GA or extend soak

---

## Phase 4: Alert Definitions ✅ COMPLETE

### Prometheus Alert Rules
**File**: `lukhas/observability/rules/guardian-rl.alerts.yml`

**Contents** (11 alerts across 6 groups):

#### Guardian PDP Performance (2 alerts)
- `GuardianPDPLatencyHigh` - p95 >10ms for 15min (WARNING)
- `GuardianPDPLatencyCritical` - p99 >50ms for 10min (WARNING)

#### Guardian Denial Rates (2 alerts)
- `GuardianDenialRateHigh` - overall >15% for 15min (WARNING)
- `GuardianScopeDenialSpike` - scope >50% for 10min (WARNING)

#### Rate Limiter Exhaustion (3 alerts)
- `RateLimitNearExhaustion` - >30% principals near limit for 10min (WARNING)
- `RateLimitHitRateHigh` - >10% hit rate for 15min (WARNING)
- `RateLimitRouteHitSpike` - route >25% for 10min (WARNING)

#### Combined Health (2 alerts)
- `GuardianRLHealthLow` - score <0.70 for 20min (WARNING)
- `GuardianRLHealthCritical` - score <0.50 for 10min (WARNING)

#### Rule Coverage (1 alert)
- `GuardianRuleCoverageLow` - <50% eval rate for 20min (INFO)

#### Backend Health (1 alert)
- `RateLimitRedisErrors` - Redis error rate >0.01/sec for 5min (WARNING)

**Features**:
- All alerts set to `severity: warning` (no-page mode)
- Detailed annotations with:
  - Human-readable summaries
  - Root cause explanations
  - Remediation actions
  - Runbook URLs (placeholders)
- Alertmanager routing examples included

**Status**: ✅ Ready to deploy (promtool validated)

---

## Phase 5: Automated Health Checks ✅ COMPLETE

### Daily Health Check Script
**File**: `scripts/rc_soak_health_check.sh`

**Features**:
- Queries 5 key metric groups
- Color-coded CLI output (✓ ⚠ ✗)
- Generates markdown daily reports
- Configurable Prometheus URL
- Exit codes for CI integration (0=pass, 1=fail, 2=error)
- Verbose mode for debugging

**Checks**:
1. **Guardian PDP latency** (p50/p95/p99)
   - P95 must be <10ms (SLO)
   - P99 should be <20ms
2. **Guardian denial rate**
   - Should be <15%
3. **Rate limiting**
   - Hit rate <10%
   - Near-exhaustion <30%
   - Max utilization <90%
4. **Combined health score**
   - Must be >0.80 (target >0.85)
5. **Traffic volume**
   - Monitors for anomalies

**Output**:
- Console: Color-coded summary
- File: `docs/audits/rc-soak/YYYY-MM-DD.md`

**Usage**:
```bash
./scripts/rc_soak_health_check.sh                 # Default Prometheus
./scripts/rc_soak_health_check.sh --verbose       # Show raw metrics
./scripts/rc_soak_health_check.sh --prom-url URL  # Custom Prometheus
```

**Status**: ✅ Executable, ready to run

---

## Phase 6: Baseline Metrics Template ✅ COMPLETE

### Collection Template
**File**: `docs/audits/BASELINE_METRICS_TEMPLATE.md`

**Contents**:
- 6-hour baseline collection window
- Guardian PDP performance section
- Denial metrics (overall, by scope, top reasons)
- Rate limiting metrics (hit rate, exhaustion, utilization)
- Combined health score
- Traffic patterns (hourly breakdown, peak hours)
- Rule evaluation coverage
- Anomalies and issues tracking
- Prometheus query log
- Baseline assessment checklist
- Sign-off section

**Usage**:
1. Start 6h baseline collection after monitoring deployment
2. Fill in template with Prometheus query results
3. Analyze against expected ranges
4. Sign off for soak continuation
5. Use as comparison baseline for daily checks

**Status**: ✅ Ready to use

---

## Phase 7: Coordination & Documentation ✅ COMPLETE

### Critical Blocker Documented
**File**: `docs/gonzo/issues/GUARDIAN_POLICY_YAML_FORMAT_MISMATCH.md`

**Issue**: Guardian Policy YAML Format Mismatch (#390)

**Analysis**:
- Policy YAML uses `when/unless/subject` format
- Rule dataclass expects `subjects/actions/resources/conditions/obligations`
- Normalization logic incomplete
- PDP never initializes → falls back to permissive mode

**Impact**:
- Smoke tests fail with 401
- Prometheus metrics empty (no source data)
- Grafana dashboard shows empty panels
- Health artifacts missing Guardian section

**Recommended Fix**: Update YAML to explicit schema (Option A)

**Owner**: Codex (hot-path adapter lane)
**Priority**: P0 (blocks all monitoring deployment)

**Status**: ✅ Documented, issue #390 created

---

### Team Coordination Updated
**Files**:
- `docs/gonzo/audits/TEAM_STATUS.md` - Worktree ownership updated
- `docs/gonzo/COORDINATION_UPDATE_2025-10-14.md` - Full status + priorities

**Lane Assignments**:
| Agent | Lane | Status |
|-------|------|--------|
| **Claude** | Observability/CI | ✅ Phase 1 complete, standing by |
| **Codex** | Hot-path code | 🔴 Fix Guardian YAML (#390) |
| **Copilot** | DX/docs | ✅ Complete |

**Status**: ✅ All docs updated and committed to `main`

---

### GitHub Issues Created
- **#388**: E402/E70x slice 1 — adapters subset (≤20 files)
- **#389**: E402/E70x slice 2 — reliability subset (≤20 files)
- **#390**: Guardian Policy YAML format mismatch (P0 blocker)

**Status**: ✅ All issues created with detailed descriptions

---

### PR #381 Management
- Converted to **Draft**
- Added reviewer note explaining scoped B-slice strategy
- Linked to follow-up issues (#388, #389, #390)

**Status**: ✅ Complete

---

## Git Commits & Branch Status

### Main Branch Commits
1. **a8a2aeab5** - `ops(coordination): GA Guard Pack operationalization + lane coordination updates`
   - Monitoring deployment checklist
   - Coordination update doc
   - TEAM_STATUS update
   - Guardian YAML issue documentation

**Status**: ✅ Pushed to `main`

---

### fix/guardian-yaml-compat Branch
1. **e0f098c95** - `ops(rc-soak): add comprehensive RC soak monitoring infrastructure`
   - RC soak monitoring plan
   - Prometheus alert rules
   - Automated health check script
   - Baseline metrics template

**Status**: ✅ Pushed to `fix/guardian-yaml-compat`

**Note**: This branch contains RC soak artifacts. Will be merged to `main` after Guardian YAML fix or cherry-picked if needed sooner.

---

## Deliverables Checklist

### Monitoring Infrastructure ✅
- [x] Prometheus recording rules (18 rules, 6 groups)
- [x] Grafana dashboard (7 panels)
- [x] Deployment checklist (step-by-step procedures)
- [x] Rollback procedures (emergency recovery)

### RC Soak Period ✅
- [x] Comprehensive 5-phase monitoring plan
- [x] Alert definitions (11 alerts, no-page mode)
- [x] Automated daily health check script
- [x] Baseline metrics collection template
- [x] Daily checklist template
- [x] Go/no-go decision criteria
- [x] Post-soak report template

### Coordination ✅
- [x] Guardian YAML blocker documented
- [x] GitHub issues created (#388, #389, #390)
- [x] PR #381 converted to Draft
- [x] Team status updated
- [x] Coordination update doc created
- [x] Lock claimed (`.dev/locks/ga-guard.lock`)

### Documentation ✅
- [x] Monitoring deployment checklist
- [x] RC soak monitoring plan
- [x] Guardian YAML format analysis
- [x] Baseline metrics template
- [x] Alert definitions with runbooks
- [x] Coordination status update
- [x] Post-RC operationalization summary

---

## Critical Path to GA

### 1. Codex: Fix Guardian YAML (#390) - P0
**Estimated**: 30 minutes
**Blocks**: All monitoring deployment

**Steps**:
1. Update `configs/policy/guardian_policies.yaml` to explicit schema
2. Add unit test for policy loading
3. Verify smoke tests pass
4. Commit as hot-path fix

---

### 2. Claude: Deploy Monitoring (after #390) - P1
**Estimated**: 20 minutes
**Unblocked by**: Guardian YAML fix

**Steps**:
1. Deploy Prometheus rules
2. Reload Prometheus
3. Deploy Grafana dashboard
4. Run system health audit
5. Verify Guardian/RL sections
6. Pin metrics comment on PR #382

---

### 3. Claude: Start RC Soak (after monitoring deploy) - P1
**Duration**: 48-72 hours
**Automated**: Daily health check script

**Steps**:
1. Start 6h baseline collection
2. Document baseline metrics
3. Run daily health checks
4. Monitor alerts (no-page mode)
5. Review Grafana dashboard daily
6. Collect traffic patterns

---

### 4. Claude: GA Promotion (after soak) - P2
**After**: 48-72h soak passes all criteria

**Steps**:
1. Review all success criteria
2. Make go/no-go decision
3. Update version to v0.9.0 (remove `-rc`)
4. Create GA release notes
5. Tag release: `git tag v0.9.0`
6. Deploy to production

---

## Current Status

### What's Complete ✅
- **100%** of observability/CI deliverables
- **Zero-risk PRs** landed/auto-merged
- **Monitoring stack** ready to deploy
- **RC soak plan** comprehensive and executable
- **Alert definitions** validated and ready
- **Health check automation** tested and working
- **Documentation** complete and committed
- **Team coordination** updated and clear

### What's Blocked 🔴
- Monitoring deployment (Guardian YAML fix)
- Smoke tests (Guardian PDP initialization)
- Health artifacts validation (Guardian section)
- RC soak period start (no metrics until monitoring deployed)
- GA promotion (pending RC soak)

### What's Next ⏭️
1. **Codex**: Fix Guardian YAML (#390) ← **CRITICAL PATH**
2. **Claude**: Deploy monitoring (20 min after #390)
3. **Claude**: Start RC soak (automated, 48-72h)
4. **All**: GA promotion decision

---

## Risk Assessment

| Risk | Likelihood | Impact | Mitigation |
|------|------------|--------|------------|
| Guardian YAML fix takes longer than expected | Medium | High | Codex has detailed analysis doc, clear fix path |
| RC soak reveals performance issues | Low | Medium | Rollback procedures documented, alert thresholds conservative |
| Prometheus/Grafana deployment issues | Low | Low | Deployment checklist thorough, rollback tested |
| Alert noise during soak | Low | Low | All alerts in warning mode, no pages sent |
| Health check script bugs | Very Low | Low | Script tested, verbose mode for debugging |

**Overall Risk**: 🟢 **Low** - All critical path work complete, clear blockers identified

---

## Acceptance Criteria (Claude)

### Phase 1: PR Landing ✅
- [x] #382, #383 merged cleanly
- [x] #385, #386 auto-merge enabled
- [x] All CI gates passed

### Phase 2: Monitoring Infrastructure ✅
- [x] Prometheus rules artifact ready
- [x] Grafana dashboard artifact ready
- [x] Deployment checklist created
- [x] Rollback procedures documented

### Phase 3: RC Soak Planning ✅
- [x] Comprehensive 5-phase plan created
- [x] Alert definitions validated
- [x] Automated health check script working
- [x] Baseline metrics template ready
- [x] Go/no-go criteria defined

### Phase 4: Coordination ✅
- [x] Guardian YAML blocker documented
- [x] GitHub issues created (#388, #389, #390)
- [x] PR #381 converted to Draft
- [x] Team status updated
- [x] Coordination docs committed

### Phase 5: Deployment (Blocked on #390) ⏸️
- [ ] Guardian YAML fixed
- [ ] Prometheus rules deployed
- [ ] Grafana dashboard deployed
- [ ] Health artifacts validated
- [ ] Baseline collection started

### Phase 6: RC Soak (After Deployment) ⏸️
- [ ] 6h baseline collected
- [ ] Daily health checks running
- [ ] Alerts in preview mode
- [ ] 48-72h soak complete
- [ ] All success criteria met

### Phase 7: GA Promotion (After Soak) ⏸️
- [ ] Go/no-go decision: GO
- [ ] Version updated to v0.9.0
- [ ] Release notes created
- [ ] Tag created and pushed
- [ ] Production deployment complete

---

## Summary

**Claude's Contribution**:
- ✅ **100% complete** for observability/CI lane
- ✅ **Zero-risk** execution (no hot-path code changes)
- ✅ **Comprehensive** monitoring infrastructure ready
- ✅ **Automated** RC soak tooling working
- ✅ **Clear** coordination and documentation

**Blocked On**:
- 🔴 Guardian YAML fix (#390) - **Codex lane**

**Next**:
- Standing by for #390 resolution
- Ready to deploy monitoring in ~20 minutes after fix
- Ready to start RC soak immediately after deployment

**Timeline to GA**:
- Guardian fix: 30 min (Codex)
- Monitoring deploy: 20 min (Claude)
- RC soak: 48-72h (automated)
- **Total**: ~3 days from Guardian fix

---

**Status**: 🟢 **READY FOR DEPLOYMENT**
**Owner**: Claude (Observability/CI)
**Next Owner**: Codex (Guardian YAML fix)

---

🤖 Generated with Claude Code
Co-Authored-By: Claude <noreply@anthropic.com>

_Report version: 1.0.0_
_Generated: 2025-10-14_
